Rhinoviruses (RVs) are the largest related assemblage of genetically and antigenically distinct respiratory pathogens known, comprising 168 genotypes.
These picornavirus species often occur in symptomatic young children from community and hospital populations where they create a sizable burden for management and are a frequent trigger of wheeze.
[1] [2] [3] Picornavirus infections can more often be observed among children presenting to an emergency department than other respiratory virus infections.
4 Nearly three quarters of respiratory virus detection episodes during the first 28 days of life are due to RVs and over half are symptomatic.
3 Until recently, much of what is known of RV diversity, epidemiology and clinical impact was determined using human studies and cell culture methods in the 1950s to 1980s.
In 2006, the molecular discovery of a genetic clade of RVs that could only be cultured in vitro using sophisticated air-liquid interface cultures was subsequently ratified as a third species, Rhinovirus C (RV-C).
5, 6 To date, RV-C has added 56 distinct RV types to the genus Enterovirus, family Picornaviridae.
As more is learned, conclusions reached by some earlier studies have required re-examination and confirmation.
[5] [6] [7] We aimed to estimate the spectrum of RV genotypes, species seasonality and RV involvement in co-detections in Queensland using a convenience collection of airway sample extracts from patients with suspected respiratory infections, collected during 2001 and tested using molecular tools expected to account for all RV species.Specimens extracts (n=1179; 94% nasopharyngeal aspirates) for retrospective RV testing originated from an unselected sample of mostly young patients (57.5% male) aged one day to 90.1 years (average 5.4 years, median 1.5 years) from across Queensland who presented to a hospital or clinic serviced by Pathology Queensland, Queensland Health (PQ), with symptoms of acute respiratory infection during 2001.There was no systematic sampling protocol used, thus our sample did not represent .
https://doi.org/10.1101/334334 doi: bioRxiv preprint the total population of extracts received by PQ for testing in 2001.
